Add  "framework" subsection (#280)
ietf-rats-wg/eat: draft-ietf-rats-eat.md

It may also have low security, having no special security defenses.
There is no minimum security requirement to be an entity.

## EAT as a Framework

> EAT can be viewed as a framework for defining attestation tokens for specific use cases more so than it is one specific token definition.

Reviewer: Why be vague here? ("can be", "more so than").

```suggestion
EAT is a framework for defining attestation tokens for specific use cases and not a specific token definition.
```

> While EAT is based on and compatible with CWT and JWT, it can be thought of in these terms:

Reviewer: Maybe keep it crisp here, too? Such as:
```suggestion
EAT provides the following features:
```

Author: Yes. Made a separate change in this spirit.

* An identification and type system for claims in claims-sets
* Definitions of common attestation-oriented claims
* Claims are defined in CDDL and serialized using CBOR or JSON
* Security envelopes based on COSE and JOSE
* Nesting of claims sets and tokens to represent complex and compound devices
* A profile mechanism for specifying and identifying specific token formats for specific use cases

EAT uses the name/value pairs the same as CWT and JWT to identify individual claims.
{{theclaims}} defines common attestation-oriented claims that are added to the CWT and JWT IANA registries.

> As with CWT and JWT, no claims are mandatory and claims not recognized should be ignored.

Reviewer: Should this be normative SHOULD?

Unlike, but compatible with CWT and JWT, EAT defines claims using Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL) {{RFC8610}}.

> In most cases the same CDDL definition is used for both the CBOR/CWT serialization and the JSON/JWT serialization.

Reviewer: Maybe summarize the differences here?

Author: Other people think this section is too long.

Like CWT and JWT, EAT uses COSE and JOSE to provide authenticity, integrity and optionally confidentiality.
EAT places no new restrictions on cryptographic algorithms, retaining all the cryptographic flexibility of CWT, COSE, JWT and JOSE.

EAT defines a means for nesting tokens and claims sets to accommodate composite devices that have multiple subsystems and multiple attesters.
Full tokens with security envelopes may be embedded in an enclosing token.
The nested token and the enclosing token do not have to use the same encoding (e.g., a CWT may be enclosed in a JWT).

EAT adds the ability to detach claims sets and send them separately from a security enveloped EAT that contains a digest of the detached claims set.

This document registers no media or content types for the identification of the type of EAT, its serialization format or security envelope.

> That is left for a follow-on document.

Reviewer: Superfluous?

```suggestion
```

Author: I don't think it is superfluous because tags and media types are needed. They are committed for standards process reasons, not for technical reasons.

## EAT as a Framework

EAT can be viewed as a framework for defining attestation tokens for specific use cases more so than it is one specific token definition.
While EAT is based on and compatible with CWT and JWT, it goes further and can be thought of in these terms:

* An identification and type system for claims in claims-sets
* Definitions of common attestation-oriented claims
* Claims are defined in CDDL and serialized using CBOR or JSON
* Security envelopes based on COSE and JOSE
* Nesting of claims sets and tokens to represent complex and compound devices
* A profile mechanism for specifying and identifying specific token formats for specific use cases

EAT uses the name/value pairs the same as CWT and JWT to identify individual claims.
{{theclaims}} defines common attestation-oriented claims that are added to the CWT and JWT IANA registries.
As with CWT and JWT, no claims are mandatory and claims not recognized should be ignored.

Unlike, but compatible with CWT and JWT, EAT defines claims using Concise Data Definition Language (CDDL) {{RFC8610}}.
In most cases the same CDDL definition is used for both the CBOR/CWT serialization and the JSON/JWT serialization.

> Like CWT and JWT EAT uses COSE and JOSE to provide authenticity, integrity and optionally privacy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Like CWT and JWT, EAT uses COSE and JOSE to provide authenticity, integrity and optionally privacy.
```

> EAT places new new restrictions on cryptographic algorithms and thus retains all the cryptographic flexibility of CWT, COSE, JWT and JOSE.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
EAT places no new restrictions on cryptographic algorithms and thus retains all the cryptographic flexibility of CWT, COSE, JWT and JOSE.
```

This allows for either symmetric key or public key cryptography and a range of algorithm strengths to accommodate a wide variety of use cases.

> EAT goes further than CWT and JWT in allowing nesting of claims sets in several ways to accommodate composite entities that have many subsystems.

Reviewer 2: CWT and JWT allow nesting too.  What we want to say here, I think, is that EAT provides pre-canned nesting types (submods and bundles) that allow to describe composite attesters in a natural way.

Author: reworded. Thx.

In more closely coupled use cases one claims set is simply nested in another.
For these the encoding format may not be mixed.
EAT also allows full tokens with security envelopes to be embedded in an enclosing token.
This accommodates use cases where the final entity is composed of subordinate entities that produce full EAT tokens on their own.
In this case the subordinate token may be encoded different than the enclosing token (e.g., a CWT may be enclosed in a JWT).

EAT adds the ability to detach claims sets and send them separately from a security enveloped EAT that contains a digest of the detached claims set.

> An example of this is a small and very security attester, perhaps purely built with hardware, attests to claims from outside of it.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
An example of this is a small and very secure attester, perhaps purely built with hardware, which attests to claims from outside of it.
```

> These detached claims sets may be sent with their enveloping EAT together in a message define in this document called a detached EAT bundle.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
These detached claims sets may be sent with their enveloping EAT together in a message defined in this document called a detached EAT bundle.
```

Reviewer 3: I pulled together some similar changes I prepared recently and put then here for comparison/consideration: https://github.com/carl-wallace/eat/commit/22fedf64157750c7f322b3b69467fee84cccf1a6. I had the bullets that appear above in the EAT as a Framework section in the abstract (but in the body may be better). One thing I'd like to see incorporated that I had captured is a reference to the Claims-Set-Claim group in the prose. I'd also prefer the intro to start with some intro words re: EAT vs a pointer to the architecture document.

Author: Hi Thomas, you are in agreement with section 1.2 on CWT, JWT... and 1.3 on CDDL, CBOR... and distributing the essential content from them to section 4 intro and the new frameworks section, right?

Part of what's going for me here is I'm trying to respond to comments from the chairs, Eliot and such. They seem to want more explanation. Maybe 5 years from now that will be unnecessary.

I'm not particularly attached to any of this. Will try to find a balance here...

Reviewer 2: hi Laurence, TBH I am fine with anything that has this at its core:

```
> The EAT framework provides:
> * A type system -- the base claims-set & a few aggregation types;
> * Security envelopes based on COSE, JOSE;
> * CBOR and JSON serialisations;
> * A number of pre-defined semantics (the defined "claims") that one
> can readily reuse.
```
which Eliot seemed to be happy with:
```
All good.  In fact, that's so well stated that perhaps you should say it 
in the draft just so.
```

I tend to favour information provided succinctly, but any editorial choices are up to the editors, not to me :-)
